ScreenCapturerExample/README.md, before:

# Twilio Video ScreenCapturer Example

> NOTE: `TVIScreenCapturer` is deprecated on iOS 12.0 and above due to performance issues on wide-color devices. If you wish to share the contents of the entire screen we recommend that you use [ReplayKit](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/replaykit) instead. Take a look at our ReplayKit example [app](../ReplayKitExample) to get started.

This project demonstrates how to implement your own `TVIVideoSource` to capture from the contents of a `WKWebView`. The approach is specific to the snasphotting APIs available in WebKit.framework since iOS 11.0.

`TVIScreenCapturer` is used on devices older than iOS 11.0, where the `UIGraphics` APIs do not suffer from the same performance issues as on iOS 12.0.

### Setup

This example does not connect to a Room, and thus does not require any access tokens or other configuration. Internet connectivity is required to load the contents of the `WKWebView`. Any device or simulator with iOS 9.0 or later may be used.

### FAQ

1. When should I use `ReplayKitVideoSource` vs `ExampleWebViewSource`?

Using ReplayKit means that you will require user consent in order to begin recording. Also, video captured by ReplayKit.framework includes your application's entire `UIWindow`, and the status bar.

If you only want a portion of the screen, and can accept some performance penalty consider writing a use-case based `TVIVideoSource` (like `ExampleWebViewSource`) instead.

Commit message:

ISDK-2258: Update ScreenCapturerExample for TVIVideoSource (#341)
* Use WKWebView snapshotting APIs.
* Use vImage to perform RGBA to BGRA conversion.
* Update README files.
* Remove references to TVIVideoCapturer and TVIVideoConstraints.
* Allow compiler optimizations when compiling a release build.
* Add known issues to the README.md.
* Add media teardown logic.
* Fixup comments, and add a TODO for unpremultiply.

ScreenCapturerExample/README.md, after:

# Twilio Video Screen Capturer Example

> NOTE: `TVIScreenCapturer` is deprecated on iOS 12.0 and above due to performance issues on wide-color devices. If you wish to share the contents of the entire screen we recommend that you use [ReplayKit](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/replaykit) instead. Take a look at our ReplayKit example [app](../ReplayKitExample) to get started.

This project demonstrates how to write your own `TVIVideoSource` to capture the contents of a `WKWebView` using the snasphotting APIs [available in WebKit.framework](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/webkit). Since snapshots include only a subset of the view hierarchy, they do offer some flexibility over screen sharing solutions like ReplayKit.

`TVIScreenCapturer` is used on devices older than iOS 11.0, where the `UIGraphics` APIs do not suffer from the same performance issues as on iOS 12.0.

### Setup

This example does not connect to a Room, and thus does not require any access tokens or other configuration. Internet connectivity is required to load the contents of the `WKWebView`. Any device or simulator with iOS 9.0 or later may be used.

### FAQ

1. When should I use `ReplayKitVideoSource` vs `ExampleWebViewSource`?

Using ReplayKit means that you will require user consent in order to begin recording. Also, video captured by ReplayKit.framework includes your application's entire `UIWindow`, and the status bar.

If you only want to share a portion of the view hierarchy, and can accept some performance penalty consider writing a use-case based `TVIVideoSource` (like `ExampleWebViewSource`) instead.

### Known Issues

1. Snapshots captured on iOS simulators include appear to include pre-multiplied alpha, but the alpha channel is always opaque (0xFF). Without proper alpha information it is impossible to un-premultiply the data and the images look too dim. This issue does not occur on a real device.
