MultiPartyExample/README.md, before:

# Twilio Video Multi-Party Example

The project demonstrates how to use Twilio's Programmable Video SDK for multi-party conferencing with up to 4 Participants in a Group Room.

### Key Classes

Two `UIViewController` classes and one `UIView` comprise the main functionality of the app.

**MainViewController**

The landing page for the example. This class coordinates authorization of the Video Client, and accepts user input to determine which Room to connect to. The shared settings UI is accessible from the ViewController's navigation items.

**MultiPartyViewController**

Coordinates a Video conference in a Room, including:

1. Configuring local audio & video Tracks.
2. Connecting to the Room.
3. Rendering local and remote video.
4. Routing dominant speaker events to the appropriate subviews.
5. Raising fatal errors to the developer.
6. Disconnecting from the Room, and stopping `TVICameraSource`.

**RemoteParticipantView**

Displays a single `TVIRemoteParticipant`, with up to one `TVIRemoteVideoTrack` and handles [Dominant Speaker](https://www.twilio.com/docs/video/detecting-dominant-speaker) events.

### Setup

See the master [README](https://github.com/twilio/video-quickstart-swift/blob/master/README.md) for instructions on how to generate access tokens that are needed to connect to a Room.

You will need to provide a hardcoded token, or token server URL in [MainViewController.swift](MultiPartyExample/MainViewController.swift). Please note that this example is designed to work in a Group Room, including the usage of [VP8 Simulcast](https://www.twilio.com/docs/video/tutorials/working-with-vp8-simulcast) and [Dominant Speaker](https://www.twilio.com/docs/video/detecting-dominant-speaker) events. You can create Group Rooms using the [REST API](https://www.twilio.com/docs/video/api/rooms-resource), or by selecting them as the default type in the [console](https://www.twilio.com/console/video/configure).

<kbd><img src="../images/quickstart/console-room-topology-group.png"/></kbd>

This example requires Xcode 10.0 and the iOS 12.0 SDK, as well as a device or simulator running iOS 9.0 or above. Sharing video from the camera is not supported on an iOS simulator.

### Running

Once you have setup your access token, install and run the example. You will be presented with the following screen:

<kbd><img width="360px" src="../images/quickstart/multi-party-home-screen.png"/></kbd>

Tapping "Connect" will authorize your Client, and then connect to a Room sharing audio and video. Once you've connected, video from up to 3 Remote Participants is shown, and the most recent dominant speaker is highlighted. Single tap on your Participant to mute and un-mute audio. Double tap on your Participant to switch the camera from front to back.

### Known Issues

**1. Defaults are inefficient for Peer-to-Peer**

This app is designed to be used in a Group Room. If you join a Peer-to-Peer Room then simulcast will still be enabled by default. The Client has no way to disable simulcast after connecting, beacuse it is ignorant of the Room type that is being used.

Commit message:

ISDK-2408: Add Network Quality indicator to the local participants view (#375)

MultiPartyExample/README.md, after:

# Twilio Video Multi-Party Example

The project demonstrates how to use Twilio's Programmable Video SDK for multi-party conferencing with up to 4 Participants in a Group Room.

### Key Classes

Two `UIViewController` classes and one `UIView` comprise the main functionality of the app.

**MainViewController**

The landing page for the example. This class coordinates authorization of the Video Client, and accepts user input to determine which Room to connect to. The shared settings UI is accessible from the ViewController's navigation items.

**MultiPartyViewController**

Coordinates a Video conference in a Room, including:

1. Configuring local audio & video Tracks.
2. Connecting to the Room.
3. Rendering local and remote video.
4. Routing dominant speaker events to the appropriate subviews.
5. Displaying the Local Participant's [Network Quality Level](https://www.twilio.com/docs/video/using-network-quality-api).
6. Raising fatal errors to the developer.
7. Disconnecting from the Room, and stopping `TVICameraSource`.

**RemoteParticipantView**

Displays a single `TVIRemoteParticipant`, with up to one `TVIRemoteVideoTrack` and handles [Dominant Speaker](https://www.twilio.com/docs/video/detecting-dominant-speaker) events.

### Setup

See the master [README](https://github.com/twilio/video-quickstart-swift/blob/master/README.md) for instructions on how to generate access tokens that are needed to connect to a Room.

You will need to provide a hardcoded token, or token server URL in [MainViewController.swift](MultiPartyExample/MainViewController.swift). Please note that this example is designed to work in a Group Room, including the usage of [VP8 Simulcast](https://www.twilio.com/docs/video/tutorials/working-with-vp8-simulcast), [Dominant Speaker](https://www.twilio.com/docs/video/detecting-dominant-speaker) and [Network Quality](https://www.twilio.com/docs/video/using-network-quality-api) events. You can create Group Rooms using the [REST API](https://www.twilio.com/docs/video/api/rooms-resource), or by selecting them as the default type in the [console](https://www.twilio.com/console/video/configure).

<kbd><img src="../images/quickstart/console-room-topology-group.png"/></kbd>

This example requires Xcode 10.0 and the iOS 12.0 SDK, as well as a device or simulator running iOS 9.0 or above. Sharing video from the camera is not supported on an iOS simulator.

### Running

Once you have setup your access token, install and run the example. You will be presented with the following screen:

<kbd><img width="360px" src="../images/quickstart/multi-party-home-screen.png"/></kbd>

Tapping "Connect" will authorize your Client, and then connect to a Room sharing audio and video. Once you've connected, video from up to 3 Remote Participants is shown, and the most recent dominant speaker is highlighted. Single tap on your Participant to mute and un-mute audio. Double tap on your Participant to switch the camera from front to back.

### Known Issues

**1. Defaults are inefficient for Peer-to-Peer**

This app is designed to be used in a Group Room. If you join a Peer-to-Peer Room then simulcast will still be enabled by default. The Client has no way to disable simulcast after connecting, beacuse it is ignorant of the Room type that is being used.
